>> Brian Holt: So
we're going to create a source directory.
This is gonna be like a more serious app.
There's gonna be more to it, which is fun,
cuz we've now bothered to set
up the entire server, make an app.jsxfile
here in your source directory,
and we're gonna import
suspense from react.
We talk about suspense and
the complete intro to react, but
it basically allows you to
have boundaries around, hey,
if stuff inside of here isn't finished
loading yet, show this loading screen.
And then allows you to write all of your
React components as if everything was
loaded all the time.
Which makes the authoring of React
components much more simple,
which I appreciate.
Okay, and
we're gonna write two components here,
a server component so that you can see
what it looks like from the server side.
And then we're gonna write
a client component so
you can see how to opt
into client components.
So we're gonna import server
component from ./ server
component, which we'll
write here momentarily.
And we're going to import client
component from ./client component.
Okay, and
then export default function app.
Okay, export default.
Okay, what did I do?
Form that's what it was.
I was like,
why is this not syntaxing correctly?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, I'm gonna put a bunch
of console logs in here, because I think
this actually is, it kind of shows
you where everything is rendering,
which I think ends up being kind of cool.
So console.log rendering
app server component.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then we're just gonna say return.
Suspense, fallback equals
whatever you wanna put here.
Normally you'd have something a bit nicer,
we're just gonna say loading.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and we're gonna put
h1, we're gonna make this a notes app.
Then we'll have our server component.
We'll have our client component.
And that will be our app.
>> Brian Holt: So I kind of
spoiled you a little bit on this.
But is this a server component,
or is this a client component?
It's a server component.
>> Brian Holt: Again, by default, they
wanna make everything in here a server
component, so
you only opt into client when you need to.
And so, especially,
typically the top level of your app is
always going to be a server component.
I'll show you how to hack
around this a little bit, but
you can't make server components children
of client components, only the other.
So if you wanna have a server component,
it has to be the child of
another server component.
So by virtue of that, if your top
level component is a client component,
that means all of its children
will be client components.
>> Speaker 2: That's just because of
the dependency inheritance of you would be
waiting for the client component anyways?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, well, server
components are always gonna run first,
yeah, so it's gonna run
the entire tree first, right?
And that you can't opt out of that cycle.
So let's do our client component,
I think that makes sense.
Let's do that one first.
So just the big thing to
file in your brain here is,
hooks don't work on the server.
If you want any sort of hook,
you need to opt into a client component.
And that's the part where I was saying
it's a departure from writing normal
JavaScript because or normal react
because normally you're just like, cool.
I need to use state right now, use state,
and you have to have a frame of mind
of like, wait, do I have children
that are server components?
Do I need, you have to start having these
concerns around, where am I in my app?
>> Brian Holt: And
you didn't have to before.
>> Brian Holt: Clientcomponent.jsx, so,
how do we make it a client component?
What do you do?
This is rhetorical,
cuz I have not told you [LAUGH].
You put this, what do they call them?
Directives?
Forgot, pragmas?
>> Brian Holt: But this is what you do,
you put at the very top,
the first thing must be a string and
it says use client.
>> Brian Holt: Right there playing
off of like use strict here.
Do you remember writing
use strict everywhere?
If you don't again,
bless you, we used to have to do that
back in my day, back in ES5 days.
We had to tell we're in strict mode,
or we're not in strict mode,
they kind of use that same
pattern here for use client.
Now, you might ask yourself,
why didn't we put use server here?
Use, it's just assumed to be server,
so you don't have to put that.
You can put it there, but
it's the same as putting any string
at the beginning of your thing.
It just doesn't make any sense to so
UseClient, that's what this is for.
We will use useServer later, but
it's not for the same thing.
Okay, so now that we've done this, this
is just a normal React component here.
So import useState from React,
export, default,
>> Brian Holt: Function,
ClientComponent,
>> Brian Holt: Console.log.
>> Brian Holt: Rendering, client
component, God, I was redundant, wasn't I?
Rendering, client component,
client component.
It sounds more dumb when you have to say
it out loud, but that's what my notes say.
And yeah, again,
we're just gonna say const,
counter, set counter, enter equals,
use state zero, and return.
I have this using this again,
this doodle.css, and so,
they use this field set everywhere.
So that's why we're gonna use that,
legend.
Client component, P, and
then we'll have counter,
counter, okay and button, and
we'll have an on click here.
This is going to set
counter of counter +1.
>> Brian Holt: And
then we'll have increment, or
whatever you wanna call it there.
So again,
very the normal React component here,
just to demonstrate that, like all
the interactivity of it still works.
Yeah, directives,
that's what they call these.
And yeah, useServer is assumed,
so you don't need to put it.